oh our White House correspondent
Kimberly halat is standing by in
Washington with more on that but first
let's speak to H Abdul Hamid she's in
rala in the occupied West Bank what can
you tell us about today's raids
Huda well there's a a raid that has been
ongoing for several hours now it started
around 2:30 local uh which is uh sorry
12:30 GMT in Janine now Janine has been
really a focus of the Israeli forces
here in the occupied West Bank we do
know that uh there's a lady who has been
wounded by shrapnel we do know there's
several other injuries some of them by
live ammunition but we did speak to
people on the ground and at the moment
they say that the Israeli forces are
inside the refugee camp they have
surround they were near a hospital there
and they and they they could hear an
exchange of gunfire it's still a very
fluid situation and it's ongoing at the
moment all right let's thank ABD Hamid
for now I think we're going to come back
to you in a moment Huda but let's take
this to our White House correspondent
Kimberly Haler who's standing by live
for us in Washington and Kimberly let's
start with this issue of us sanctions
are they targeting settler groups or
individuals because as we know
settlement activity under international
law according to un experts any transfer
of population that's illegal they
say mhm and as a result uh the US uh
president has promised to hold uh those
individuals and groups to account and so
uh what we know is uh weeks ago the US
president tked some of his top
secretaries to look at policies that
they could use because they was a
feeling within the Biden Administration
that the Israeli government simply was
not serious about holding Israeli
settlers to account for the violent acts
they were committing against
Palestinians and now what we understand
is that that that announcement about
that policy is imminent that the Biden
Administration is on the cusp of making
the announcement that it will be putting
in place a travel ban that will in
effect prevent settlers who have
committed violent acts we understand it
will be several dozen uh from coming to
the United States for their attacks on
Palestinians we should point out there
will also be uh travel restrictions put
on some Palestinians who have committed
acts against Israelis as well but uh
this is really significant because not
only did the US president Telegraph this
in an opad uh a few weeks ago uh but
this is something that has been been
promised for about three years by the
Biden Administration but has really not
been done by any Administration until
going back to Bill Clinton so this is a
big action on the part of Joe Biden and
one that uh he's been facing a lot of
pressure to do now you've got to wonder
Kimberly how is this going to impact
relations with the current Israeli
government which includes figures within
the cabinet who are settlers who are
from
quite extreme settlements like kirat
arba benir case in point all of which
when you look at international human
rights organization say are illegal
under international law once
again it doesn't appear that the US
president seems to be thinking about
that right now what he seems to be
thinking about is his own
reelection and here in the United States
in some very key swing States for
example there are some very prominent
Muslim leaders who have put together a
group called abandoned Biden and right
now they are saying that they will not
support him as long as he does not take
action to stand up and stop the
slaughter of Palestinians not just in
Gaza but also the attacks in the West
Bank such as we've seen by the settlers
so uh the US president is under pressure
uh by Muslim leaders he's under pressure
in terms of the number of casual that
we're seeing in Gaza whether it is
protests outside the White House whether
it is demonstrations around the world
he's hearing the international outcry
and he's also had even resignations from
within his own Administration over some
of his policies in support of Israel and
so this seems to be what is driving
these announcements it doesn't seem to
be the issue of how he's going to deal
with the Israeli government moving
forward that seems to be at the front of
the president's mind
all right let's leave it there for now
this has been really important
developments that Kimber is updating us
and let's take this back to H Abdul
Hamed how any reaction coming from the
Israeli authorities from settler groups
to
this well so far we haven't heard
anything um I think everybody is waiting
to see and probably wanting to know what
are the details uh of who is will be on
that list if indeed that comes out um
now there's an the something is to issue
and list and forbidding people to travel
to the US the other question is will it
actually change anything uh here on the
ground in the occupied West Bank if you
ask Palestinians they will probably be
very skeptic about this uh just look at
the numbers and that's according to the
UN and since October 7th there have been
more than 300 settler attacks attacks on
Palestinians about a dozen have lost
their lives others have been wounded in
uh with live ammunition ever since the
national Israel's national security
minister itamar Ben has been
Distributing weapons two settlers across
the occupied uh West Bank now people
Palestinians would tell you that that
they don't think anything will change uh
because the settlers have not only the
political protection uh from the
coalition government of Benjamin
Netanyahu but they also have the
protection of the Israeli forces on the
ground so many times I've spoken to
people really across the occupied West
Bank I was just in Hebron uh yesterday
and this morning and people were telling
me there that they get attacked they get
accused of things that they haven't done
and and this is done with total impunity
and they always pay the price crisis and
sometimes it's the soldiers that are
helping the settlers in whatever act
they're doing and it is really a Waring
situation but this has been going on for
decades and it has increased and
increased regardless of whatever any us
Administration has said in the past
certainly they it never had such a bold
move as the one it will have as we
understanded uh today was by issuing
this list but certainly uh people here
don't don't expect much change or at
least not immediate change on the ground
uh because also of the current
atmosphere since October the 7th that
the Palestinians are being made to pay
the brunt to for what Hamas the
operation Hamas carried out on October
the 7th they they they suffer from
Revenge attacks continuously and there
is no one there to protect them all
right we'll leave you there thanks so
much h
abdulhamid